# Need For Speed 2 Mod
 
 
***Need for Speed*** (***NFS***) is a racing game franchise published by Electronic Arts and currently developed by Criterion Games (the developers of the *Burnout* series).[1] The series generally centers around illegal street racing, and tasks players to complete various types of races while evading the local law enforcement in police pursuits. *Need for Speed* is one of EA's oldest franchises not published under their EA Sports brand.
 
**Download File ⇔ [https://vittuv.com/2A0Teq](https://vittuv.com/2A0Teq)**


 
The series titles have been overseen and developed by multiple notable teams over the years; including EA Canada, EA Black Box, Slightly Mad Studios, and Ghost Games. Several *Need for Speed* games have been well-received critically, and the franchise has been one of the most successful of all time, selling over 150 million copies.[2] The franchise has expanded into other forms of media, including a film adaptation and licensed Hot Wheels toys.[3]
 
The *Need for Speed* series was originally developed by Distinctive Software, a video game studio based in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. Prior to Electronic Arts' purchase of the company in 1991,[4] it had created popular racing games such as *Stunts* and *Test Drive II: The Duel*. After the purchase, the company was renamed Electronic Arts (EA) Canada. The company capitalized on its experience in the domain by developing the *Need for Speed* series in late 1992.[*citation needed*] EA Canada continued to develop and expand the *Need for Speed* franchise up to 2002, when another Vancouver-based developer, named Black Box Games, was acquired by EA and contracted to continue the series with *Need for Speed: Hot Pursuit 2*.[5] Meanwhile, Slightly Mad Studios would develop the 2009 sim racing title, *Need for Speed: Shift*, and its 2011 sequel, *Shift 2: Unleashed*.

The UK-based Criterion Games would develop the 2010 *Hot Pursuit* title; a successor to 1998's *Need for Speed III: Hot Pursuit*. The game introduced a social platform, titled Autolog, which allows players to track game progress, view leaderboards, share screenshots with friends, among other features.[6] The 2010 *Hot Pursuit* game would be well-received; a remastered version was released ten years later in 2020.[7] As a result of *Hot Pursuit'*s critical success, in-contrast to the mixed reception of the Black Box-developed installments since 2007's *Need for Speed: ProStreet*, Criterion would become the lead developer of the franchise going forward.[8] At E3 2012, Criterion Games vice president Alex Ward announced that random developers would no longer be developing *NFS* titles. Ward wouldn't confirm that all *Need for Speed* games in the future would be developed entirely by Criterion, but he did say the studio would have "strong involvement" in them and would have control over which *NFS* titles would be released in the future.[1][9]
 
In August 2013, following the downsizing of Criterion Games, EA Swedish developer Ghost Games would become the main studio for the franchise, and oversee its future development.[10][11] At the time, 80% of Ghost Games' work force consisted of former Criterion Games employees.[10][11] From 2013 to 2019, Ghost Games would develop *Need for Speed Rivals*, the 2015 franchise reboot, 2017's *Need for Speed Payback*, and 2019's *Need for Speed Heat*. While *Rivals* was positively-received, the 2015 reboot and its follow-ups received more mixed reviews.
 
Almost all of the games in the *NFS* series employ the same fundamental rules and similar mechanics: the player controls a race car in a variety of races, the goal being to win the race. In the tournament/career mode, the player must win a series of races in order to unlock vehicles and tracks. Before each race, the player chooses a vehicle and has the option of selecting either an automatic or manual transmission. All games in the series have some form of multiplayer mode allowing players to race one another via a split screen, a LAN or the Internet. Since *Need for Speed: High Stakes*, the series has also integrated car body customization into gameplay.
 
Although the games share the same name, their tone and focus can vary significantly. For example, in some games the cars can suffer mechanical and visual damage, while in other games the cars cannot be damaged at all; in some games, the software simulates real-car behavior (physics), while in others there are more forgiving physics.
 
With the release of *Need for Speed: Underground*, the series shifted from racing sports cars on scenic point-to-point tracks to an import/tuner subculture involving street racing in an urban setting. To date, this theme has remained prevalent in most of the following games.
 
*Need for Speed: Shift* and its sequel took a simulator approach to racing, featuring closed-circuit racing on real tracks like the Nrburgring and Laguna Seca, as well as the fictional street circuits in various cities like London and Chicago. The car lists include a combination of exotics, sports cars, and tuners in addition to special race cars.
 
Most of the games in the franchise include police pursuits in some form or other. In some of the games featuring police pursuit (e.g. *Need for Speed III: Hot Pursuit*), the player can play as either the felon or the cop.[15] The concepts of drifting and dragging were introduced in *Need for Speed: Underground*. These new mechanics are included in the tournament/career mode aside from the regular street races. In drift races, in games like *Underground* and *Need for Speed (2015)*, the player must defeat other racers by totaling the most points, earned by the length and timing of the drift made by the player's vehicle.[16] In drag races, the player must finish first to win the race, though if the player crashes into an obstacle or wall, the race ends.[16] In *Need for Speed Payback*, the player has to earn a certain number of points to win; increase their multiplier based on how many points they get, whilst passing through a limited number of checkpoints.[17]
 
The concept of car tuning evolved with each new game, from focusing mainly on the mechanics of the car to including how the car looks. Each game except *Need for Speed: Hot Pursuit* has car tuning which can set options for items like ABS, traction control, or downforce, or for upgrading parts like the engine or gearbox. Visual tuning of the player's car becomes important in tournament/career mode after the release of *Need for Speed: Underground 2*, when the appearance is rated from zero to ten points. When a car attains a high enough visual rating, the vehicle is eligible to be on the cover of a fictional magazine.[18]
 
Like all racing games, the *Need for Speed* series features a list of cars, modeled and named after actual cars. Cars in the franchise are divided into four categories: exotic cars, muscle cars, tuners, and special vehicles.[19] Exotic cars feature high performance, expensive cars like the Lamborghini Murcilago, Mercedes-Benz SLR McLaren, Chevrolet Corvette and the Ford GT; muscle cars refer to the Ford Mustang, Dodge Challenger and the Chevrolet Camaro; while tuner cars are cars like the Nissan Skyline and the Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution. The special vehicles are civilian and police cars that are available for use in some games, such as the Ford Crown Victoria in *Need for Speed: Hot Pursuit* and garbage trucks, fire engines and taxis in *Need for Speed: Carbon*.[19]
 
Originally the series took place in international settings, such as race tracks in Australia, Europe, and Africa.[20] Beginning with *Underground*, the series has taken place in fictional metropolitan cities.[21] The first game featured traffic on "head to head" mode, while later games traffic can be toggled on and off, and starting with *Underground*, traffic is a fixed obstacle.[21] Most of the recent *Need for Speed* games are set in fictional locations of our world, in a number of different time periods. These include, but are not limited to, Olympic, Bayview, Rockport, Palmont City, Tri-City Bay, Seacrest County, Fairhaven City, Redview County, Ventura Bay, Fortune Valley, Palm City and Lakeshore City.
 
The first installment of *The Need for Speed* was the only serious attempt by the series to provide a realistic simulation of car handling elements through the direct collaboration of Staff members from *Road & Track*. Electronic Arts left the handling dynamics tuning with the automotive magazine's seasoned drivers to match vehicle behavior including realistic over and understeer that remains impressive decades later, as well as sounds made by the vehicles' gear control levers and other functions. The game contained vehicle data with spoken commentary, several "magazine-style" images of each car, and short video clips highlighting the vehicles set to music. Most cars and tracks are available at the beginning of the game, and the objective is to unlock the remaining locked content by winning tournaments. This version featured chases by police cars, a popular theme throughout the series.
 
Another version called *The Need for Speed: Special Edition*, was released only for the PC in 1996. It featured support for DirectX 2 and TCP/IP networking, two new tracks, but dropped the ever-popular flip and go in favor of the more generic scene reset after an accident, a portents of the arcade-style gaming that would dominate the series ever after.
 
*Need for Speed II* (*NFS II*) featured some rare and exotic vehicles, including the Ford Indigo concept vehicle, and featured country-themed tracks from North America, Europe, Asia, and Australia. A new racing mode was also introduced, dubbed "Knockout", where the last racers to finish laps will be eliminated. In addition, track design was more open-ended; players could now "drive" off the asphalt, and cut across fields to take advantage of shortcuts. *Need for Speed II: Special Edition* includes one extra track, extra cars, and support for Glide. The PlayStation port of *NFS II* also took advantage of the NeGcon controller, and the Dual Analog and DualShock controllers as well.
 a2f82b0cb4
 
